0. Introduction
---------------

This book will hopefully teach you fundamental concepts required in order to
use a modern Linux-based operating system (OS) effectively. I use the term
"Linux-based" because there is such diversity in the group of OS's collectively
referred to as "Linux" in common parlance. To ease the burden of trying to
explain a system with no accepted definition, united only by a loose set of
conventions and a name, the environment will be fixed ahead of time: you will
work from a provided snapshot of an OS.

It is perhaps just as important to understand the process of building such an
OS, or at least to understand how it is typically installed for normal use, but
I will attempt to glaze over these details (at first) in order to teach you
fundamentals. Here it is important to understand: nothing is immutable. I will
make many choices for you (OS, init, shell, editor, pager, etc.) but none of
these choices (except perhaps the kernel, Linux, as far as we are concerned in
this book) is without alternative. These alternatives make "Linux" such a joy
to use: if you are dissatisfied with an aspect of the system, you are almost
always free to change it, often with minimal effort.

If you are beginning to panic that you do not yet know these terms, don't: all
of the things I have mentioned so far, even the generic term "Operating System"
will be elucidated in time.

It is difficult to find a starting point for learning Linux concepts. Many
components build off of one another, but it is not necessarily beneficial
to start from the base and work up: it is more useful to start at the middle,
work up enough to do useful work, and then work back down to learn the finer
points which will illuminate the entire system as a whole.

With this in mind, we will begin by learning the usage of a shell.

